[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So now,
we're gonna be Getting RESTful.
Does anybody wanna give me
their definition of rest?
Not what the acronym stands for,
but what it actually means?
Don't read mine.
[LAUGH] He was trying to read it.
Yo, you got your hand up?
>> Speaker 2: No, I was just-
>> Speaker 1: I though you were
raising, you're just.
I was just stretching,
I wasn't really raising my hand,
although you were like this.
Anybody?
I know people have some meaning of rest.
There's no wrong answer cuz rest is
kind of, I mean, there's a 50 page
definition on it, so I think, whatever
you're thinking of is probably right.
So I just wanna know
what you think about it.
>> Speaker 1: Nobody?
All right, so REST is not a You
can't just NPM install REST.
Actually, you know what,
you probably could NPM install REST.
[COUGH] I'll take that back.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 1: [COUGH] But
it wouldn't be what you think it is.
It'd be something else.
The stuff that's on NPM these days.
But yeah, it's not a framework.
And it's not [COUGH] a standard.
It's not It's not like a HTTP protocol,
it's not like something that's baked in.
W3C will never talk about REST,
like it's not a standard in the web,
it's just a way that we came up with.
So the modern web is mostly built
around Rest, and as far as the acronym,
it's just short for
Representational State Transfer.
I think that's what it's short for.
What does that actually mean?
We'll get into that.
But the basics are is that
it should be stateless.
What I mean by stateless, I mean when I
access web service, like a server or some
other client or whatever, when I make a
request, that request should be stateless.
As in it shouldn't pass around
information about previous requests and
stuff like that.
It should be asking, or it should be
doing a request that's entirely fresh and
entirely stateless from
the previous one or the next one.
So completely stateless.
Use HTTP verbs explicitly.
So, express uses the verbs for
everything as you saw, at dot get,
at dot post, those are the HTTP verbs.
REST uses those verbs explicitly.
And then they expose a directory-like
URL pattern for our routes.
So, what I mean by that, if we go look at,
actually this is a really bad example
on this one, but
when I say directory structure,
it'll make more sense as we start
building the URL, but the routes for
our requests should follow kind of like a
directory structure leading to a resource.
And you'll see what that
means in a little bit.
That's horrible spelling.
And also,
it's a transfer of JSON or an XML.
Mostly JSON in nowadays age but
XML is still around.
So that's usually,
when I think about REST,
that's what I think about,
those four things.
Stateless, using the verbs,
directory like URL pattern for
the routes, and emits and
consumes JSON and or XML.
That's it.
There are some smaller details that I
encourage you to read up on if you wanna
get really good with it, but yeah,
I would say Rails probably
make RESTful very popular.
But REST is definitely the thing.
Comparing it to other things like soap and
other standards out there, REST is
the thing and can do the same think as
those other different types of paradigms.
So there are a ton of tools out there to
assist with designing of your RESTful API.
There are startups whose job is to give
you tools to help you design and document
an API and then even those tools will go
as far as grabbing your API documentation
and creating an API server for you,
just for mocks not for production.
So it's very important, it's very,
it can be very tough modeling an API.
So there are tools out there
that help you with that.
We will not be using those tools.
For one,
our APIs are not gonna be that complex.
And two, you still need to learn
how to design API yourself and
get going with this.
So we won't be using some of
those tools but they do exist.
If you get to the point where you want to
abstract some of the basic stuff away and
you get a good feeling what REST is.